Unit 13 Outlook : Chapter about Hiera (#166)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 13 - Outlook/hiera.mdx

## Overview

### What is Hiera?

> Hiera is a hierarchical [vision transformer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.11929) that achieves high accuracy without the need for specialized components found in other vision models. The authors propose pretraining Hiera with a strong visual pretext task to remove unnecessary complexity and create a faster and more accurate model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hiera is a hierarchical [vision transformer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.11929) that achieves high accuracy without the need for specialized components found in other hierarchical vision models. The authors propose pretraining Hiera with a strong visual pretext task to remove unnecessary complexity and create a faster and more accurate model.
```

![CNNs](https://learnopencv.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/Convolutional-Neural-Networks.png)

Vision Transformers (ViTs), on the other hand, are more accurate, scalable and architecturally simple models that took computer vision by storm when introduced. However, this simplicity comes at a cost: they lack this “vision inductive bias” (their architecture is not designed to work specifically with visual data).

Many efforts have been made to adapt ViTs, generally by adding hierarchical components to compensate for this lack of inductive bias in their architecture. Unfortunately, all of the resulting models turned out to be slower, bigger and more difficult to scale.

### Hiera's approach: Pretraining task is all you need

Authors of the Hiera paper argue that a ViT model can learn spatial reasoning and perform well on computer vision tasks by using a strong visual pretext task called MAE and thus, they can remove unnecessary components and complexity from state-of-the-art multi-stage vision transformers to achieve greater accuracy and speed.

### MAE

> MAE, which means “Masked AutoEncoder”, is an unsupervised training paradigm. As any other Autoencoder, it consists of encoding high dimensional data (images) into a lower dimension representation (embeddings), in such a way that this data can be decoded into the original high dimensional data again. However, the visual MAE technique consists of dropping certain amount of patches (around 75%), encoding the rest of the patches, and then trying to predict the missing ones. This idea is based on the BERT model, and has been used a lot in recent years as a pre-training task for image encoders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MAE, short for “Masked AutoEncoder”, in this context, is an unsupervised training paradigm. As with any other method using Autoencoders, it consists of encoding high dimensional data (images) into a lower dimension representation (embeddings), in such a way that this data can be decoded into the original high dimensional data again. However, the visual MAE technique consists of dropping a certain amount of patches (around 75%), encoding the rest of the patches, and then trying to predict the missing ones. This idea is based on the BERT model and has been used a lot in recent years as a pre-training task for image encoders.
```
I think it'd be nice to talk about masked pretraining in general
